All right let's go back to this picture now of our conductor.
So the ohms law that we're really going to focus on tells me that the voltage which again is always
a difference of potential V.A mine is VB.
There will be is proportional to the amount of current.
Let me just write that down for us V is proportional to the amount of current that I get.
So that means if I double the voltage I double the current.
If I make the voltage difference five times bigger I'm going to get five times more current.
Now to turn this proportionality into an equation you introduce the concept of the resistance that is
the constant of proportionality that links the voltage to the current in that wire.
OK.
Now if we have something called a Olmec resistor
an Olmec resistor means that are does not depend on the voltage and R does not depend on the current.
If you have this it simply means that my resistance can be written as a property of the material that
it's made from is it made from copper as is made from silver or any other conductor or some insulator.
That is my resistivity value multiplied by a geometrical factor and the geometrical factor is the length
divided by the area.
Notice here this doesn't depend on on the voltage.
It also doesn't depend on the current.
This is basically the definition of an Olmec resistor.
Which means if you were going to make a plot of voltage versus the current which you would get would
be a straight line.
That's what this equation tells me.
And the slope of that line
the slope would simply be equal to the resistance are so I'd double the voltage.
I will get two times as much current If I have two resistors over here two different plots Magin this
guy hears are two that has a different slope.
The resistance here of R2 is bigger than the resistance.
The red one are.
Call it R1.
OK so this really summarizes ohms law.
If I want to make the resistance of any wire bigger I can do several things.
I could change the resistivity I could make that longer.
Or I can make the cross-sectional smaller if I want to bring down the overall resistance I reduce the
resistivity I reduce the length or make the cross-section bigger.